The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Friday, I visited
Fort Bliss in Texas,
where I met with some of our
extraordinary men and women in
uniform to mark the second
anniversary of the end of major
combat in Iraq.
It was a chance to thank our
troops for the outstanding work
they've done over
the last decade.
Fort Bliss is home to soldiers
who took part in every major
phase of the Iraq War -- from
the initial assault on Baghdad;
to the years of
fighting block by block;
to the partnership with the
Iraqi people that helped give
them a chance to forge
their own destiny.
And while the war itself remains
a source of controversy here at
home, one thing will
never be in doubt --
the members of our armed forces
are patriots in every sense
of the word.
They met every mission and
performed every task that was
asked of them with precision,
commitment and skill.
And now, with no Americans
fighting in Iraq,
it's my privilege on behalf of
a grateful nation to once again
congratulate these men and
women on a job well done.
This anniversary is a chance to
appreciate how far we've come.
But it's also a reminder that
there is still difficult work
ahead of us in Afghanistan.
Some of the soldiers I met at
Fort Bliss had just come home
from the battlefield, and others
were getting ready to ship out.
We've broken the Taliban's
momentum in Afghanistan,
and begun the transition
to an Afghan lead.
Next month, the last of the
troops I ordered as part of the
surge against the Taliban
will come home, and by 2014,
the transition to Afghan
lead will be complete.
But as long as we have a
single American in harm's way,
we will continue to do
everything in our power to keep
them safe and help them succeed.
That means giving them a clear
mission and the equipment they
need on the front lines.
But it also means taking care of
our veterans and their families.
Because no one who fights for
this country should have to
fight for a job or a roof over
their head when they come home.
I also told our soldiers at
Bliss that part of honoring
their service means
strengthening the nation they
fought so hard to protect.
As we turn the page
on a decade of war,
it's time to do some
nation-building here at home.
My grandfather's generation
came back from World War II and
helped form the backbone of
the greatest middle-class
in history.
They helped this country come
back stronger than before.
Today's veterans have the
skills, the discipline,
and the leadership skills to
do the exact same thing --
and it's our job to
give them that chance.
It's time to build a nation that
lives up to the ideals that so
many Americans
have fought for --
a nation where they can realize
the dream they sacrificed
to protect.
We need to rebuild our
roads and runways and ports.
We need to lay broadband lines
across this country and put our
veterans back to work as cops
and firefighters in communities
that need them.
And we need to come together to
make America a place where hard
work is rewarded and anyone
willing to put in the effort can
make it if they try.
That's how we can
honor our troops.
That's the welcome
home they've earned.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.